So I argued if you were back an engineer,
you would have a lot more of a grace
from me to mock stuff out, right?
Systems, writing to the database,
maybe don't choose to do it,
credit cards awesome, right?
Like all sorts of stuff
that you shouldn't do.
Front end engineers,
it's like time, random UUIDs,
Random sorting, And then the last one,
which I keep skirting
around is API requests.
So the meta point that I was trying
to build to is on a periphery,
the best practice for a really long time,
and if you still do it,
you have no judgment from me,
is mocking out fetch.
XAHR callback, wow, I don't remember HCG.
I don't even remember what the old event
was that fetches based on two big ajax
requests before fat.
That's, that's the sign the times
are changing XML HTTP request.
There it is, objects, whatever.
You could do all of those things,
the thing is mobile phones exist and
one of the things that exist
on mobile phones these days
are progressive web
apps with offline mode.
And those are powered by service workers.
Service workers exist behind the scenes
and they run outside the browser contacts.
Their main job is they
intercept network request so
that you can have stuff like
offline mode and stuff like that.
And then instead of going and hitting
the network, you can check the cache API,
right?
Or read from indexedDB and
respond to network requests without
calling out to the network.
You can intercept network requests
from outside of your app and
respond to them without
hitting the network.
So could you mock and stub out fetch or
Axios or what have you, but
that's now code you're not covering,
right?
Cuz you mocked it out and replaced it,
which means that code coverage tool
is never hitting those things, right?
It would be really cool if we could
get all the way to the edge of what we
control, which is basically outside
of our browser context, right?
And then intercept it, and
this is a library that is really exciting.
And the one of the reasons I wanna call
it out is test, yeah, sure, sure, sure.
I aspire every company I work out that I
should be able to develop on an airplane.
Which means in a perfect world,
my environment should be set up
in such a way that I don't need a network
connection to work on my thing.
There's some jokes about the amount I need
to npm install to get my job done, but
that's not important.
But one of the things
that you can do nowadays,
if you look at this given code example
right here, for mock service worker,
it looks almost like an express
app if you squint, right?
It's basically you can just write
a layer that fakes out your API.
The various ways I've done this over time,
which is one,
just spinning up an express
server that you actually talk to.
And just having an environment
variable go into local host,
whatever port verses like something else.
There's different ways that people
have done this in the past.
This is really great, it sets up
a service worker in the context.
And what's really great about it
is you can use it in your tests
to simulate the network,
do you know where else you can use it?
In development, and so
this now goes back away from testing and
more back to our core
enterprise app stuff, right?
Occasionally, I don't know if
this ever happened any you all.
You need to work on something
before the API is ready.
And maybe there's a deadline and
the backend team says we're totally gonna
have the API done three
months before that deadline?
Has that ever happened to anyone where
they actually got it done on time?
No, no, software engineers don't make
good guesses back in our frontend, right?
We were sandbagging when we said three
months, we thought we could do two,
it took us four, and
it took them four, right?
We had a four-month window to begin with.
So what's really great about
this is that you can, just for
the API that you need to, like you don't
have to, it's not an all or nothing thing.
It will intercept anything, too,
in this case, in this example,
we have on page a post
on a restapi2/login.
And then you can control it and
do the response.
I think a question one of
you asked me earlier, right?
When is it okay?
This is like, we're still sending out the
network requests as far as the browser is
concerned, right?
It's just somebody's catching it right
outside and handing it back to us.
So you can do all your APIs,
you can do just a few of them, right?
You can also have it if you
like want it to blow up.
If it's an unhandled request,
you can set that as well.
But you can either a in your tests, start
up one of these like mock service workers
to basically pretend to be a server.
So you're not patching,
you're not monkey patching, fetch.
You're not doing any of those things.
Basically your code is running
as it would in the browser.
There's just something like outside.
It's like we didn't feel bad
when we use JS Dom, did we?
I mean, maybe you did, I don't know,
I didn't feel bad, right?
And the same is true here,
where your code is running the same
way it will in production, right?
And your tests are actually like, your
mocking is happening outside of what you
control in the truest sense,
and it's super powerful.
But also I am doing it like
a specialized sales pitch for this test.
Yeah, sure, sure, sure.
Great for development, for APIs that are
not done yet, for all sorts of different
things, or even simulating stuff that
you need to simulate in a certain way.
A lot of times you might get a bug report.
And like you can't get
the server to do that thing.
And so you're using the app to try to get
like staging into some weird condition
where you can recreate it here,
you can literally take the API response,
have it be the thing, right?
Just use it kind of in
development as well.
Especially in a large application,
there's tons of things you do not control,
there are services you don't own.
And so this allows you to put them in
various states and simulate a network,
could you spin up your
own development server?
You could, but now that's the thing
that you gotta spin up next to it.
This is basically you can do,
if process.nodem =
development, spin up the service worker,
right?
Or have something where you don't have it
running, or something along those lines.
You can have pieces of your code,
depending on where they're running.
Just basically use this and then your
code is running the true way that it
would normally run,
which will give you a lot more confidence.
So again, some of these things like
around mocking stubbing are worthy of
more than we have our time and
attention for and are distracting from
the meta point that we're trying to do.
Which is how do you kind of put the metal
suit armor around the planet and
not unleash Ultron there,
I made the Marvel reference.
We can close this section out with that.
I made it all the way to the end.
How do you put this around your app so
that you can begin doing
these important refactors?
I think this is a really
great way to do that, right?
You can simulate these things, but
not actually put a lot of
conditional logic in your code.